README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/JFrogConanCenter.png" width="600"/>
</p>

Conan Center Index is the source index of recipes of the [ConanCenter](https://conan.io/center) package repository for [Conan](https://conan.io).

This repository includes a Continuous Integration system that will build automatically the Conan packages for the recipes submitted via
[Pull Request](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls).


### How to consume recipes

ConanCenter is added as a remote by default to Conan client, so starting to use recipes from this repository is as easy as running
one simple command after installing Conan:

```
conan install name/version@ [-g <generator>]
```

Of course, we really encourage you to use a `conanfile.txt` or `conanfile.py`
to list all the requirements or your project and install them all together
(Conan will build a single graph and ensure congruency).

:warning: It is very important to notice that recipes will evolve over time
and, while they are fixing some issues, they might introduce new features and
improvements, and your project can break if you upgrade them
([How to prevent these breaking changes in my project?](docs/consuming_recipes.md)).



### Documentation

All the documentation is available in this same repository in the [`docs/` subfolder](docs/README.md).

This is a list of shortcuts to some interesting topics:

* :rocket: If you want to learn how to **contribute new recipes**, please read [docs/how_to_add_packages.md](docs/how_to_add_packages.md).
* :speech_balloon: **FAQ**: most common questions are listed in [docs/faqs.md](docs/faqs.md).
* :warning: The conan-center **hook errors** reported by CCI Bot can be found in the [docs/error_knowledge_base.md](docs/error_knowledge_base.md).
* :hammer_and_wrench: The internal changes related to infrastructure can be checked in [docs/changelog.md](docs/changelog.md).
* :world_map: There are various community lead initiatives which are outlined in [docs/community_resources.md](docs/community_resources.md).
* :magic_wand: To start preparing your recipes for **Conan 2.0**, please check [docs/v2_migration.md](docs/v2_migration.md).

### Reporting Issues

You can open issues in the [issue tracker](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues) to:

* :bug: Report **bugs/issues** in a package:
    - Use the `[package]` tag in the title of the issue to help identifying them.
    - If you detect any issue or missing feature in a package, for example, a build failure or a recipe that not support a specific configuration.
    - Specify the name and version (`zlib/1.2.11`) and any relevant details about the fail configuration: Applied profile, building machine...

* :bulb: Request a **new library** to be added:
    - Use the `[request]` label to search the library in the issue tracker in case the it was already requested.
    - If not, use the same `[request]` tag in the title of the issue to help identifying them.
    - Indicate the name and the version of the library you would like to have in the repository. Also links to the project's website,
      source download/repository and in general any relevant information that helps creating a recipe for it.

*  :robot: Report **a failure** in the CI system:
    - If you open a Pull Request and get an unexpected error you might comment in the failing PR.
    - If the service or repository is down or failing, use the `[service]` tag in the title of a new issue to help identifying them.

If your issue is not appropriate for a public discussion, please contact us via e-mail at `info@conan.io`. Thanks!


### License

All the Conan recipes in this repository are distributed under the [MIT](LICENSE) license. There
are other files, like patches or examples used to test the packages, that could use different licenses,
for those files specific license and credit must be checked in the file itself.

Commit message:

First step to use ConanCenter

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="assets/JFrogConanCenter.png" width="600"/>
</p>

Conan Center Index is the source index of recipes of the [ConanCenter](https://conan.io/center) package repository for [Conan](https://conan.io).

This repository includes a Continuous Integration system that will build automatically the Conan packages for the recipes submitted via
[Pull Request](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pulls).

### Add ConanCenter remote

ConanCenter remote is configured by default in any Conan client installation. If, for any reason, you need to add it manually, just execute:

```
conan remote add conancenter https://center.conan.io
```

### How to consume recipes

Starting to use recipes from this repository is as easy as running
one simple command after installing Conan:

```
conan install name/version@ [-g <generator>]
```

Of course, we really encourage you to use a `conanfile.txt` or `conanfile.py`
to list all the requirements or your project and install them all together
(Conan will build a single graph and ensure congruency).

:warning: It is very important to notice that recipes will evolve over time
and, while they are fixing some issues, they might introduce new features and
improvements, and your project can break if you upgrade them
([How to prevent these breaking changes in my project?](docs/consuming_recipes.md)).



### Documentation

All the documentation is available in this same repository in the [`docs/` subfolder](docs/README.md).

This is a list of shortcuts to some interesting topics:

* :rocket: If you want to learn how to **contribute new recipes**, please read [docs/how_to_add_packages.md](docs/how_to_add_packages.md).
* :speech_balloon: **FAQ**: most common questions are listed in [docs/faqs.md](docs/faqs.md).
* :warning: The conan-center **hook errors** reported by CCI Bot can be found in the [docs/error_knowledge_base.md](docs/error_knowledge_base.md).
* :hammer_and_wrench: The internal changes related to infrastructure can be checked in [docs/changelog.md](docs/changelog.md).
* :world_map: There are various community lead initiatives which are outlined in [docs/community_resources.md](docs/community_resources.md).
* :magic_wand: To start preparing your recipes for **Conan 2.0**, please check [docs/v2_migration.md](docs/v2_migration.md).

### Reporting Issues

You can open issues in the [issue tracker](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues) to:

* :bug: Report **bugs/issues** in a package:
    - Use the `[package]` tag in the title of the issue to help identifying them.
    - If you detect any issue or missing feature in a package, for example, a build failure or a recipe that not support a specific configuration.
    - Specify the name and version (`zlib/1.2.11`) and any relevant details about the fail configuration: Applied profile, building machine...

* :bulb: Request a **new library** to be added:
    - Use the `[request]` label to search the library in the issue tracker in case the it was already requested.
    - If not, use the same `[request]` tag in the title of the issue to help identifying them.
    - Indicate the name and the version of the library you would like to have in the repository. Also links to the project's website,
      source download/repository and in general any relevant information that helps creating a recipe for it.

*  :robot: Report **a failure** in the CI system:
    - If you open a Pull Request and get an unexpected error you might comment in the failing PR.
    - If the service or repository is down or failing, use the `[service]` tag in the title of a new issue to help identifying them.

If your issue is not appropriate for a public discussion, please contact us via e-mail at `info@conan.io`. Thanks!


### License

All the Conan recipes in this repository are distributed under the [MIT](LICENSE) license. There
are other files, like patches or examples used to test the packages, that could use different licenses,
for those files specific license and credit must be checked in the file itself.
